Add documentation for dataset factories feature (#2670)
kedro-org/kedro: docs/source/data/data_catalog.md

## Load multiple datasets with similar configuration using dataset factories
For catalog entries that share configuration details, you can also use the dataset factories introduced in Kedro 0.18.11. This syntax allows you to generalise the configuration and
reduce the number of similar catalog entries by matching datasets used in your project's pipelines to dataset factory patterns.

### Example 1: Generalise datasets with similar names and types into one dataset factory
Consider the following catalog entries:
```yaml
factory_data:
  type: pandas.CSVDataSet
  filepath: data/01_raw/factory_data.csv

process_data:
  type: pandas.CSVDataSet
  filepath: data/01_raw/process_data.csv
```
The datasets in this catalog can be generalised to the following dataset factory:
```yaml
"{name}_data":
  type: pandas.CSVDataSet
  filepath: data/01_raw/{name}_data.csv
```
When `factory_data` or `process_data` is used in your pipeline, it is matched to the factory pattern `{name}_data`. The factory pattern must always be enclosed in
quotes to avoid YAML parsing errors.

> ### Example 2: Generalise datasets with similar types into one dataset factory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example 2: Generalise datasets of the same type into one dataset factory
```

You can also combine all the datasets with the same type and configuration details. For example, consider the following

> catalog with three datasets named `reviews`, `shuttles` and `reviews` of the type `pandas.CSVDataSet`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
catalog with three datasets named `reviews`, `shuttles` and `companies` of the type `pandas.CSVDataSet`:
```

```
You will then have to update the pipelines in your project located at `src/<project_name>/<pipeline_name>/pipeline.py` to refer to these datasets as `shuttles#csv`,
`reviews#csv` and `companies#csv`.
```python
from .nodes import create_model_input_table, preprocess_companies, preprocess_shuttles

def create_pipeline(**kwargs) -> Pipeline:
    return pipeline(
        [
            node(
                func=preprocess_companies,
                inputs="companies#csv",
                outputs="preprocessed_companies",
                name="preprocess_companies_node",
            ),
            node(
                func=preprocess_shuttles,
                inputs="shuttles#csv",
                outputs="preprocessed_shuttles",
                name="preprocess_shuttles_node",
            ),
            node(
                func=create_model_input_table,
                inputs=[
                    "preprocessed_shuttles",
                    "preprocessed_companies",
                    "reviews#csv",
                ],
                outputs="model_input_table",
                name="create_model_input_table_node",
            ),
        ]
    )
```

> ### Example 3: Generalise datasets with similar types using into one dataset factory with multiple placeholders

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example 3: Generalise datasets of the same type using namespaces into one dataset factory with multiple placeholders
```

> You can use multiple placeholders in the same pattern. For example, consider the following catalog where the dataset entries share `type`, `file_format` and `save_args`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use multiple placeholders in the same pattern. For example, consider the following catalog where the dataset entries share `type`, `file_format` and `save_args` and all datasets are part of a namespace:
```

  type: spark.SparkDataSet
  filepath: data/{namespace}/{dataset_name}.pq
  file_format: parquet

"{dataset_name}@csv":
  type: pandas.CSVDataSet
  filepath: data/01_raw/{dataset_name}.csv
```

Having multiple dataset factories in your catalog can lead to a situation where a dataset name from your pipeline might
match multiple patterns. To overcome this, Kedro sorts all the potential matches for the dataset name in the pipeline and picks the best match.
The matches are ranked according to the following criteria :
1. Number of exact character matches between the dataset name and the factory pattern. For example, a dataset named `factory_data$csv` would match `{dataset}_data$csv` over `{dataset_name}$csv`.
2. Number of placeholders. For example, the dataset `preprocessing.shuttles+csv` would match `{namespace}.{dataset}+csv` over `{dataset}+csv`.
3. Alphabetical order

### Example 5: Generalise all datasets with a catch-all dataset factory to overwrite the default `MemoryDataSet`
You can use dataset factories to define a catch-all pattern which will overwrite the default `MemoryDataSet` creation.
```yaml
"{default_dataset}":
  type: pandas.CSVDataSet

>   filepath: <directory>/{default_dataset}.csv

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  filepath: data/{default_dataset}.csv
```
I think having `<directory>` in there might confuse people that that's also special syntax for the dataset factories.

In this example, the default `csv` configuration is inserted into `airplanes` and then the `load_args` block is overridden. Normally, that would replace the whole dictionary. In order to extend `load_args`, the defaults for that block are then re-inserted.

## Load multiple datasets with similar configuration using dataset factories
For catalog entries that share configuration details, you can also use the dataset factories introduced in Kedro 0.18.11. This syntax allows you to generalise the configuration and
reduce the number of similar catalog entries by matching datasets used in your project's pipelines to dataset factory patterns.

### Example 1: Generalise datasets with similar names and types into one dataset factory
Consider the following catalog entries:
```yaml
factory_data:
  type: pandas.CSVDataSet
  filepath: data/01_raw/factory_data.csv

process_data:
  type: pandas.CSVDataSet
  filepath: data/01_raw/process_data.csv
```
The datasets in this catalog can be generalised to the following dataset factory:
```yaml

> "{name}_data":

Reviewer 2: Since this is the first example, I'm wondering if it would be good to add an "info" admonition saying

"If you don't use a suffix the default dataset will be overridden, see [this section below]"

Wdyt?

Author: I kept the first example basic enough to get started but the second example actually shows a situation where you might need to add a suffix/prefix. I added a small explanation there as to why.

reduce the number of similar catalog entries by matching datasets used in your project's pipelines to dataset factory patterns.

### Example 1: Generalise datasets with similar names and types into one dataset factory
Consider the following catalog entries:
```yaml
factory_data:
  type: pandas.CSVDataSet
  filepath: data/01_raw/factory_data.csv

process_data:
  type: pandas.CSVDataSet
  filepath: data/01_raw/process_data.csv
```
The datasets in this catalog can be generalised to the following dataset factory:
```yaml
"{name}_data":
  type: pandas.CSVDataSet
  filepath: data/01_raw/{name}_data.csv
```
When `factory_data` or `process_data` is used in your pipeline, it is matched to the factory pattern `{name}_data`. The factory pattern must always be enclosed in
quotes to avoid YAML parsing errors.

### Example 2: Generalise datasets of the same type into one dataset factory
You can also combine all the datasets with the same type and configuration details. For example, consider the following
catalog with three datasets named `reviews`, `shuttles` and `companies` of the type `pandas.CSVDataSet`:
```yaml
shuttles:
  type: pandas.CSVDataSet

>   filepath: data/01_raw/shuttles.csv

Reviewer 3: I guess this is just an example, but it reuses a lot of `spaceflights` tutorial, if I create a spaceflights project and do this I get error because I only have `shuttles.xlsx` but not `shuttles.csv`

Author: Yeah, I changed it to be csv just for the example but you are right, it might cause confusion. Changed it!

reviews:
  type: pandas.CSVDataSet
  filepath: data/01_raw/reviews.csv

companies:
  type: pandas.CSVDataSet
  filepath: data/01_raw/companies.csv
```
These datasets can be combined into the following dataset factory:
```yaml

> "{dataset_name}#csv":

Reviewer 2: Yeah maybe something else like `@`, `$`, `%`? (Sorry if this has been treated already elsewhere)

> "{dataset_name}#csv":

Author: It's not something we recommend afaik, I've tried to use different delimiters for each example, underscore, hash symbol, period etc

In this example, the default `csv` configuration is inserted into `airplanes` and then the `load_args` block is overridden. Normally, that would replace the whole dictionary. In order to extend `load_args`, the defaults for that block are then re-inserted.

> ## Load multiple dataset with similar configuration using dataset factory patterns

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Load multiple datasets with similar configuration using dataset factories
```

> For catalog entries that share a lot of the same configurations, you could also use the dataset factory pattern introduced in Kedro 0.18.11. This syntax allows you to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For catalog entries that share a lot of the same configurations, you could also use the dataset factories introduced in Kedro 0.18.11. This syntax allows you to
```

reduce the number of similar catalog entries by matching it to a factory pattern.

Consider the following catalog entries:
```yaml
factory_data:
  type: pandas.CSVDataSet
  filepath: data/01_raw/factory_data.csv

process_data:
  type: pandas.CSVDataSet
  filepath: data/01_raw/process_data.csv
```
The datasets in this catalog can be generalised to the following pattern:
```yaml
"{name}_data":
  type: pandas.CSVDataSet
  filepath: data/01_raw/{name}_data.csv
```

> When `factory_data` or `process_data` is used in your pipeline, it would be matched to the factory pattern above. Two things to keep in mind are that the factory pattern name should be enclosed in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When `factory_data` or `process_data` is used in your pipeline, it will be matched to the factory pattern above. Two things to keep in mind are that the factory pattern name should be enclosed in
```

> quotes and that the placeholders used in the catalog entry body should be present in the factory pattern name.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
quotes and the placeholders used in the catalog entry body should be included in the factory pattern name.
```

> You can also use multiple placeholders in the same pattern. For example, consider the following catalog where the dataset entries share `type`, `file_format` and `save_args`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use multiple placeholders in the same pattern. For example, consider the following catalog where the dataset entries share `type`, `file_format` and `save_args`:
```

  filepath: data/processing/factory_data.pq
  file_format: parquet
  save_args:
    mode: overwrite

processing.process_data:
  type: spark.SparkDataSet
  filepath: data/processing/process_data.pq
  file_format: parquet
  save_args:
    mode: overwrite

modelling.metrics:
  type: spark.SparkDataSet
  filepath: data/modelling/factory_data.pq
  file_format: parquet
  save_args:
    mode: overwrite
```
This could be generalised to the following pattern:
```yaml
"{namespace}.{dataset_name}":
  type: spark.SparkDataSet
  filepath: data/{namespace}/{dataset_name}.pq
  file_format: parquet
  save_args:
    mode: overwrite
```

You can also have multiple factory patterns in your catalog. However, doing so can lead to a situation where a dataset name from your pipeline might match multiple patterns.
To overcome this, Kedro sorts all the potential matches for the dataset name in the pipeline and picks the best match. If there is an explicit entry for the dataset in the catalog,
that would be picked over any factory pattern, then the pattern with the highest number of matching characters, and finally the pattern with the highest number of placeholders in the pattern name.

> You can use dataset factory pattern to define a catch-all dataset factory pattern which would overwrite the default `MemoryDataSet` creation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use dataset factories to define a catch-all pattern which will overwrite the default `MemoryDataSet` creation.
```
